# Availability optimisation for stochastic degrading systems under Imperfect Preventive Maintenance.

**Khatab, A., Ait-Kadi, D., &amp; Rezg, N.** (2013). Availability optimisation for stochastic degrading systems under Imperfect Preventive Maintenance. *International Journal of Production Research, 52*(14), 4132–4141. <https://doi.org/10.1080/00207543.2013.835499>
  
This paper deals with imperfect preventive maintenance (PM) optimisation problem. The system to be maintained is typically a production system assumed to be continuously monitored and subject to stochastic degradation. To assess such degradation, the proposed maintenance model takes into account both corrective maintenance (CM) and PM. The system undergoes PM whenever its reliability reaches an appropriate value, while CM is performed at system failure. After a given number of maintenance actions, the system is preventively replaced by a new one. Both CM as well as PM are considered imperfect, i.e. they bring the system to an operating state which lies between two extreme states, namely the as bad as old state and as good as new state. The imperfect effect of CM and PM is modelled on the basis of the hybrid hazard rate model. The objective of the proposed PM optimisation model consists on finding the optimal reliability threshold together with the optimal number of PM actions to maximise the average availability of the system. A mathematical model is then proposed. To solve this problem an algorithm is provided. A numerical example is presented to illustrate the proposed maintenance optimisation model.
